we get to know real talk you
just saw the new episode of
wicked tuna now it's time for we
can tune a real talk with some
of the best bluefin captains in
the business discuss this week
of fishing i'm your host
microsoft good to be with you
joining us this time captain
Dave Marciano the hard
merchandise captain Paul Cheney
of drama making his first
appearance captain Tyler
McLaughlin of the pinwheel and
captain Dave Carraro of fishing
vessel tuna.com thank you all
for joining us today I look lot
to get to this week a lot to
talk about the fleet's got a new
leader one captain definitely
lost his cool and maybe even his
mate and one boat bout out of
the competition after a
nightmare nightmare season in
the opening of this latest
episode we saw captain Dave
Carraro and deckhand Geordie
Sosa rowing official fishing
vessel tuna.com past hard
merchandise is that how bad it's
gotten
let's take a look check it out .
com
this way cooler Marciano really
can't push the limits
he's got the old Humpty Dumpty
bow just kind of cut along and
not my bow goes faster an idol
Mr Sanders does at top speed
those guys up to
yeah
Jesus
guys wow dave was just goofing
around he had to drive by real
close to jealous that his vote
is basically twice as fast as
this one
Marciano your boat has been the
butt of jokes this season I
don't know why everybody's
decided this is the year to
start taking shots at you but we
saw Dave rolling past who they
called you both hunting . they
said old technology basically
called you past your Prime and
yet here you are in first place
by the end of the episode
vindication it oh yeah
hey old school rules right some
things you don't need to change
or I it's not that I'm
anti-technology but at the end
of the day stuff costs money the
more money you put into the boat
the less money get to bring home
the boats adequate it's does its
job
it's saved that's what's
important and you know he's sure
in a perfect world I'd like to
have a nice fancy boat but you
know what that boats mind i got
it the old-school way I work for
it a little at a time and she
gets the job done it and it's
not to do you know we've always
been labeled you know with the
first boat out and with the last
boat home because we're the
slowest boat in the fleet
so that's how it is but you know
what i don't like getting up
early
time is the one thing you could
still get for free
put a couple thousand pounds of
tuna on there and maybe moves
even slower and everybody was
just what it smells like you
right
David spent a lot of time this
year you know worried about
Tyler TJ etc but you know I
don't hear you worrying all that
much about the hard merchandise
yet we look up today at this
stage right at the end here he
is ahead of you
the word hubris comes to mind
how do you how do you feel about
about Marciano being a heady oh
yeah I've said it before I'll
say it again i always say i
don't believe in luck but you
know what I'm starting to
believe in miracles
my name did you underestimate
him
have ya know I know he's caught
fish in the past and you know I
know he's gonna catch him in the
future right now is his time
you're sort of a technology guy
right i mean we know what you do
for a living your pilot you deal
with a lot of Technology in the
air
you got all the fancy stuff on
your boat so I what's the
relationship between technology
and the ability to catch for a
technology i'm gonna use it to
my advantage you know that's
that's what it's all about I
want to catch as many fish as I
can ultimately catch the most
fish gonna make the most money
Tyler any surprise to you to see
Dave Marciano where he's at this
point absolutely not because
phenomenal fishermen he's been
for years I group is 10 12 15 16
years old hearing his name over
and over again you know he
didn't get the tuna fish as much
as you wanted to because he was
getting nuttin when he went to
an efficient you put his head to
doing it he caught him and we
even used to work for TJ we
solicited Marciano's got him on
the radio all the time
I mean heat the guy's the real
deal I mean you know he's got a
solo I mean I'm only two knots
quicker 10 Nazis eight knots
eight-and-a-half you mean it's
we have boats that get us to the
ground you know we leave earlier
than everyone we come in later
than everyone and that's always
been our style that's why I've
always kind of looked up the
hard merch mart and I think
people like to throw the word
underdog around and talking
about you and your crew and your
Bo do you like that term or is
it an insult for you know like
today it is what it is
the boat's nothing special but I
make it work right in like Tyler
was saying a slow boat it's
economically viable right we can
catch him as cheaply as possible
that's one thing to that works
in our favor
even if you do catch a less fish
i put more money in my pocket
hey one thing is true about
speed speed costs money bigger
engine bigger horsepower bigger
fuel bill speed costs money
there's no way around that again
I'll set it before i don't mind
getting out of bed at midnight
you know it gave you know gets
out of bed at five o'clock and
blows bias just before sunrise
but you know what that's just
what money and put in my pocket
you can't help but think of the
tortoise and the hare as there
is racing as you use
so instead he just kind of
making your way out there and
slow and steady win this race
this year
you're not fine i don't know
because like i'll admit to speed
is an edge without a doubt
especially in certain situations
the bike goes off we hear about
it
you need to get somewhere that's
where guy like Dave has a huge
edge over me
he's going to get there and
maybe get fish that I won't get
or maybe get more fish than i
can get cause he got there for
us that's definitely an edge you
know what without a doubt but
again I've been doing this a
long time and I don't do it to
be on first I do it to do is
good
well as i can for myself my
family and if we wind up on top
well so be it hard merchandise
as we know is having their best
season ever but for the new boat
drama it all came to a crashing
halt this week for the first
nine weeks of the season captain
Paul cheating is guys had not
caught a single tuna and if they
didn't catch one this week they
knew they could not afford to
fish any longer the final trip
ended with the boat breaking
down and the guys even further
in the red with an expensive
to-- let's see how it happened
we came all the way to play the
boat 60 miles in Boston going on
one last vision trip this is our
Hail Mary pass
just cut it off so it doesn't
get in here right now we have a
small issue the boat the Paul
down below probably shooting it
but we need six quick because we
need get on the board and we
have no fish right now go for
stucco at Platts and no one else
is around
we're in trouble we got a call
for a tow and we have no fish
Paul it it didn't go well it
didn't go well for you guys this
year your boat breaks down
that's kind of the nail in the
coffin for you how how tough was
that how heartbreaking was it
for you to hang it up for the
year to say the least like the
worst year we've ever had like I
don't know how much more bad
luck we could have was your bad
you mean don't have to say that
don't ever say I hope it was my
worst year ever since I always
well don't always now we are in
a burpies law right
hi know i know i have had an
awesome crew this year I mean we
tried we went out we lost a ton
of fish we broke down we just
had a lot of misfortunate does
not believe in locks so i won't
ask whether it was bad luck the
doing the drama of sheer but
what do you think it was an
experience what happened bad
preparation but what are you
going to go Brown you know what
I left the dog but especially
when I gotta escorted back to
shore and that was just my bad
bro come on ma'am I mean come
you're like older than me gotta
have you together it comes out
yeah I get my guys almost sink
this past fall
get every safety gear together
you know what when you're the
captain of that boat you're in
charge everyone that's on those
boats lives they looked for you
for guidance
totally agree you know right
Robert planning prevents
piss-poor performance
yep an estimated $OPERAND /
Coast Guard and yeah that was a
bad and that was a dead dad knew
all that is and I could have
wagered money that Marciano had
some sort of a long-running
saying just like that you've got
one of those for just about
everything there is a clich
there's a sailing he's we call
them what are they again make
sure I understand the fryer
proper planning prior proper
planning prevents piss-poor
performance Paul you lost two
fish there were some other
things too though you swap paint
with another boat at the marina
I'm just trying to walk down the
list here you didn't have an
excitable soon
the coast guard escorting you
back to Gloucester and then this
week you pull out of the dark
while you're still connected to
shore power
let's see so we're hoping for a
problem free trip when I under
the boat just hop right on you
don't need to spin it anywhere
all your power back up need that
kidney backup is that it's never
easy story of the year doing
story of the year
I'm thought that bringing it
right around i give up and back
to square one
we're also though friend you
ready
rockin i'll be honest let's just
forget this season will work and
we're going 2015 2015 goal
number one captain who going
along out of the capital in a
Martian you've been doing this
for the longest time of anyone
in this group so think back what
were some of the rookie mistakes
you remember making all of those
oh look at you know what happens
when you lose fish it's it's
part of the learning curve but
you know what like you know I
talk to these guys that was
pulling for him all year but
it'sit's too inefficient is one
of those things to you don't get
it from a bark you don't learn
it from any other way except to
go out there and make mistakes
and learn from your mistakes and
you'll get better at it as time
goes on robotic Dave I'm sure
you never made any mistakes even
as a rookie know any manuals
right absolutely
what kind of what kind of
mistakes remember making i did
the same thing I pulled out of
the dr shore power in but
unfortunately we didn't get to
it i'm an ironworks i don't know
i remember a day when the
tuna.com you should be called
the tuna.com you've come a long
way since Emily I was like 15 or
16 when people used to call you
that and also when i was twenty
guy was all well tell you you've
been doing this probably the
least amount of time it's at
least in terms of accounting a
game of them captain definitely
by last week or last year I see
the fish didn't exactly jump up
onto the boat where you may have
some clothes to rookie mistakes
last year as well actually like
definitely more so you know the
fish was tough
my health wasn't so good and I
had new mates so I had
everything stacked against me
and I'm ready to every year
yeah but you know where they had
new mates had never fished
before you know I have my
friends and I grew up fishing
with because I've been fishing
for a long time and I've been
catching fish for a long time so
I have kids that come with me
from various points I brought
two brand new kids on the boat
and they're very tough year you
know what didn't work out in my
favor
I'll tell you what when there's
fish around this past summer
like there were I put them
across the dock all matters
we're going to see you back
there next
here we are able to regroup I am
gonna go back i'm going back
with the same crew i love the
guys first step for driving
school I can't like talk how
well they did you know I mean
that I can't talk enough about
how well they did and yeah I
messed up a lot this year I'm
coming back and and hopefully
everybody myself we'll see what
happens when those guys want to
get back out there with you i
hope so i had to talk him into
it first as I mean is not coming
back up the percentage a little
bit i'm sure the yeah exactly
percentage of what you said it's
all with her arm down the poor
guy alone let them move on let's
get back to your boat our on the
pinwheel this week things were
interesting I guess let's say
it's the only way they should be
all right Tyler and Travis lost
the fish early in the week when
Travis drove over the fishing
line and then when they hooked
up again later in the week
Travis was struggling on the
wheel Tyler let's say he lost
his cool but he definitely
pushed him to the ground
here's our looked pretty neutral
you get that the bone you
dumbass
turn around that we put about
what turn that way now running
gear
out of my way she had to kill
doing a bitch Tyler now after
you finally landed the fish by
yourself after pushing how old
is he 14 15 years old you push
the poor guy to the ground was
sad he said you were you said 19
is like nearing child abuse and
any of that you push the poor
guy to the ground terrible
whatever you decide this
all-star we're gonna mold
general really seem all that
upset or you said you were sorry
you really seem all that sorry
sorry no you know you just one
thing you know traps have been
molded them all season and he's
talking a big game so you gotta
back that came up and he's
backing up when it comes to
driving the boat were fighting
fish you're making the wrong
decisions this is costing us
money you know it's already
added stress without us having
David so it's very important
that we catch every fish we can
you know we're gonna tight
competition have a lot to prove
after what happened to me in the
previous season so I I can't
afford to lose a fish because of
Travis's inexperienced would you
handle it the same way if you
could do it again
absofreakinlutely get on my way
we gotta catch the fish the fish
end up on the deck
yeah the check cashed yea travis
get paid yeah I'm pretty sure
everyone was happy with the end
result is a short-term line of
thinking is there a long-term
view that if you keep pushing
too many mates eventually
they're gonna say no thank you
even though I've got official
not here to be a beauty is
plenty of them to come so you
just no worries by if he's going
to change me you just bring the
next one way to see you go
there's a big difference finger
Diego know how to catch a
bluefin tuna and I don't care
who's on my back deck we're
gonna get it done with mirrors
are tougher than others but i'll
tell you what you say we made
every year
you're out you know what I won't
be in that top 5% because
there's a reason for that
I don't doubt that but you know
what my boat my way and I go to
see for a reason because i like
being out to sea and I like
being out there in the ocean if
I want to work on land get along
with people i take a beach job
but then again you know I mean
somebody's back right now you
hear the veteran guys in the
flea talk I hear over and over
again how important chemistry is
Dave I know talks all about the
chemistry with Sandro I I know
Marciano talks about the
chemistry with your family and
yet you seem to say hey whatever
one mates is the same as the
neck if I didn't come from fish
in the center console in my
twenties like and catching like
fish by myself all the time then
I probably think like that but
for me I'm still useful enough
where I feel I can catch him by
myself he will I lose some
because of that
absolutely but I still feel at
the end of the day if i were to
fish myself for a whole season i
would still turn a profit
I mean to forget tuna fish we
all understand the patterns we
understand how to catch them if
you play them out long
enough you're gonna get them if
you want to try and get them
quick and happy all erratic at
the boat
you're gonna lose a lot of fish
that's where that second I could
help you well debut push Tyler
this year now we've seen Tyler
push a mate's what did you make
it what happened on that boat he
shouldn't a poly ball would have
done you can certainly make that
you don't push your mates but
you know he did what he did it's
in the heat of the moment and
you know people you never push
someone out of the way you give
you a harpoon give you a cat oh
never never cashed in officially
boyfriend and like you're
dealing with humans you know you
deal with people you know I mean
I would I wouldn't do that for
for a tunafish I don't think
right now I know it's my
livelihood stuff like this you
gotta do something real quick
yeah I'm not gonna I'm not gonna
hurt one of my friends or my
mates or something that works
for me it's just someone i got
to first mean it's not like
there really people at all just
that they're disposable your
case it's only you are what
three four times the size of
James just want to be right so I
know it no pushing on your
building
yeah it wouldn't you know you
know yet but I'm not immune to
losing my temper right I'm not
gonna sit here and you know call
the kettle black you know what I
mean I've made mistakes I've had
my share of blow-ups I try not
to let it happen and you know it
but Tyler's right though it's
his boat his way to a certain
extent you know he's right like
that and you know none of us are
perfect i think you know I think
we can all admit that right now
all I'm not our job to myself in
the day you know Travis he
totally understands that you
know like what I'm doing what
I'm trying to get him do is the
right thing i didn't get to
where I am for no reason I'm not
like what I'm doing what I'm
doing in the fishery for no
reason so I think he gets it you
know yet and when we talk about
it you know he reflected I
understand moving about the
wrong way didn't factor in the
tide in the wind and where he's
going to learn it's just were so
intense at this point in the
season and the fish worth so
much money that every single
fish counts
I can't afford to lose one well
you say that and you say that
he's feeling better about it
certainly you don't feel a lot
of remorse for the way things
went but we also got to see what
happened at the weigh-in and I
don't know that I would say
Travis look like he was entirely
over at let's all watch together
take care of my baby is
the beautiful fish out here I
don't care what it was long as
you get paid and I don't have to
quit i don't quit
I don't want to leave this but I
earned this job if i keep
getting pushed around
I'm outta here did I wouldn't
let you quit I just throw the
old you almost did you don't you
meet walkway learn all the
secrets get them over this is
too good of a year I expect
they're going to be like on my
level and obviously it's not
going to be the case right away
Travis is just getting broken
into this type of fishing i
freak out but you know what the
most important thing is getting
the fish
well you know the 7-eleven down
the streets have like 19
different cashiers at last three
months so the back of the
Penrose had eight or nine meet
so you're doing better than my
local cell you know what do ya
want everything you just said
only gonna get on that shit look
at the school yard anyway you
don't mean it's just like two
kids at the playground can't get
along with each other are you
worried Tyler that will walk
away you know what I mean I know
Travis those fishing and his
hearts in his blood
I know at the end of the day
he's got to deal with my there's
a lot to it but he wants to
catch fish and he's happy where
he's at and I know he'll be
there when I need them
can you repair that relationship
do you need to repair that
relationship I definitely repair
that relationship
I mean I'm under a lot of stress
we lost David Davis my ace in
the hole I all of a sudden now
putting all that pressure right
on Travis you know what he's got
big shoes to fill and this is a
new fishery to him he's not done
this before so I'm putting a lot
of pressure on him he's at his
breaking point I'm at my
breaking point when a big
competition here we're making
good money this season so you
know what I think I need to
focus on our my relationship
with travis and everything's
gonna be ok alright guys thank
you so much that's wicked to a
real talk for this week want to
give a big thank you to captain
Dave Marciano the hard
merchandise captain Paul Cheney
of drama
captain Tyler McLaughlin a
pinwheel and captain Dave
Carraro of fishing vessel
tuna.com good to be with all you
guys to catch all the Real Talk
episodes go to NatGeo tv.com /
real talk we're gonna have
another installment right after
the all-new episode of wicked
tuna
next Sunday 9 p.m. on national
geographic channel you know
where to find at tyler's gonna
be back again next week also
going to have Captain Polly bird
of Kellyanne captain TJ on the
Hot Tuna as well talk about the
new episode where TJ helps out a
boat in need and a deckhand has
the fish fight of his life
don't forget you can get a daily
wicked tuna fix by liking us on
Facebook or following us on
Twitter we'll see you next time
for wicked tuna real-time
yeah